---
layout: post
title: "Email: Blart"
---

Sorry this email is so formal; I guess I'm a bit [blue. Da ba dee. Da ba daa](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=epnsRRPtoeU). Thanks to former NYUQB President Rahul Rao-Pothuraju for showing me this fantastic video explaining the origins of that fantastic song.

Let the record show that I hate Thanksgiving. It's a garbage holiday rightfully shunned by those good at heart. In recent years, however, I have come to look forward to the day, not for the garbage holiday itself, but because it means a new episode of the only podcast I listen to: [Til Death Do Us Blart](https://blart.libsyn.com/til-death-do-us-blart-2015). Every Thanksgiving, this show's 5 hosts (Tim Batt and Guy Montgomery of The Worst Idea of All Time and Justin, Griffin, and Travis McElroy of My Brother, My Brother and Me) watch Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 separately, and then get together and talk about it. They will do this every year until the end of linear time. When one dies, they bequeath their role to a chosen successor, who will one day do the same. I have a personal connection to the Paul Blart: Mall Cop franchise, having seen the first one in theaters for my birthday (there aren't a lot of child-appropriate January movies), the second one also in theaters six years later (I have no excuse this time), as well as Gurkha, a Tamil-language remake of Paul Blart: Mall Cop, at home. Anyway, the podcast is great and I love it and it's the only good podcast in existence.

See you all at practice,

Lev "Blart" Bernstein

Secretary, Quiz Bowl at the Wynn Las Vegas, 2015-2021

