---
layout: post
title: "Week 10, Progress"
---

[Progress](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15290)!

I've made my first PR to Oppia. There are some guidelines the project has for
PRs--all sensible--and, while I think I followed them, I can't really be sure.

One of the PR requirements is tagging a code owner, who will be the one to
review your code. That's really great, I think; having one person (at least)
who is the definitive authority on a part of the very large codebase makes a
lot of sense, and helps ensure that there are no
[magic numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_number_(programming)#Unnamed_numerical_constants)
or other annoying fossils.

So, the work continues. I'm going to claim another issue soon. The other
members of my group are also making good progress. By the time the
presentations roll around, we should be in good shape.

I must say, it's been nice working on a project people actually use. As with
many Open Source projects, lots of people really do rely on Oppia. Lots of
businesses rely on Open Source projects, too, which might seem surprising at
first glance. Really, though, it's just the continuation of a long-held
pattern: the private sector generating immense amounts of wealth off of
public-sector innovations. We shouldn't be surprised to see private companies
using Open Source projects; they've done the same for years, and seen
[great success](https://time.com/4089171/mariana-mazzucato/).

A private company can use an Open Source project without having to invest any
time, labor, or money. That's a profoundly tempting offer. Why reinvent the
wheel when you can use an established tool? And if the project has a few
weak points, or it doesn't do exactly what you want it to do, then it isn't too
hard for a few of your engineers to spend a short amount of time making those
changes and submitting a PR.

With all that, it'd be more surprising to me if a given company *didn't* use
Open Source at any point; honestly, I'm not sure that's really even possible
these days. Even large closed-source projects rely on some small piece of
Open Source code, somewhere down there; or they might be written in a language
that itself is Open Source.

It's Open Soure all the way down, I suppose.
