---
layout: post
title: "Week 8, Oppia"
---

So, we picked [Oppia](https://github.com/oppia/oppia).

It's a fine project, I think. When we were looking at projects, I was concerned
about finding one that I'd actually enjoy working on. While I can write in a
number of languages, these days I mostly work in Python; a Python-based project
was thus desirable for me. I also enjoy writing unit tests, and this project
has some relevant issues in that area. I normally use pytest for my testing,
while Oppia seems to use its own homebrewed system of creating and running
tests; that should be an interesting challenge.

We had our first meeting as a group today. It went well, not a lot to say,
really. We're all going to look for issues we can work on. I like this group, I
think we're going to work well together. It helps that we all have different
areas of interest, so we can cover as much ground as possible when looking for
issues.

In terms of other relevant events, Tom Callway's presentation was enjoyable. I
will admit, I came into it with a little bit of doubt; the idea of an "Open
Source Evangelist" at Amazon was rather strange to me. Still, he made his case
and made it well. I'll always be a bit apprehensive about a major player like
Microsoft, Amazon, or Google contributing to an Open Source project, but
there's nothing inherently wrong with that. I am curious, I will admit, as to
what exactly caused the major rift between Amazon and ElasticSearch. The
details aren't exactly out there.

Finally, in a complete change of subject, there's
[this article](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2022/03/sabotage-code-added-to-popular-npm-package-wiped-files-in-russia-and-belarus/).
It's part of a larger trend of "protestware," designed to implode or behave
differently under certain conditions. I have my own thoughts on this, but I'm
really curious what others think. One aspect that I think hasn't been
adequately discussed, whether you agree with what these developers are doing or
not, is that of IP-specific behavior. As mentioned in the article, es5-ext will
print an anti-war statement if a user's IP is determinde to be within Russia or
Belarus. The node-ipc packagew will wipe all of a user's files if they're
determined to be within Russia. That sounds pretty foolproof, but geolocating
IP addresses is really not that simple. See
[this case](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vh6zanS_epw) for what I mean.