---
layout: post
title: "Week 5, Your Project is Bad"
---

I'm disappointed in Kate.

It's the text editor I use for just about everything--including writing this
blog post. Yes, this one. The one I'm writing right now. With these words. In
Kate.

Kate is an Open Source project--barely. After looking through the GitLab (eww)
repo, there's a lot missing. There's no real CONTRIBUTING.MD; there's no code
of conduct (though one is present on the KDE website); there are no issue
labels, which help a lot for getting into a project; and, worst of all, the
repo is on GitLab (have I said eww yet?) There also seems to be some confusion
re: licenses, as different parts of the codebase are licensed under different
licenses, including some licenses the project doesn't seem to want to use
anymore. All in all, it's just messy.

Maybe part of the problem is just the sheer scope of KDE. There are so many
KDE projects, it's difficult for there to be enough attention directed toward
all of them. There are similar problems in Eclipse Foundation projects, but
they manage well enough (possibly due to the buckets of money companies hand
them. Then they use that money to edit the Foundation's Wikipedia page).

On a lighter note: American healthcare! What a nightmare.

It's nice when people do something to take power back from big healthcare
companies. Christopher Snider is one of those people. I'm a firm believer in
open data and the right to see relevant information.

I'm also a firm believer in data privacy. That was one minor concern I had
during the [Opening the Loop](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/opening-the-loop)
video. Nightscout, founded by Kate Farnsworth, is built around the idea of
parents being able to view their children's blood glucose levels remotely.
While there's not really anything malicious that can be done with that
information, the act of being able to view your child's information is, to me,
a bit frightening. Granted, parents have the right to make important medical
decisions for their children; there's still just something that rubs me wrong
about all this. I'm sure I'd feel differently if I had a diabetic child,
though.

But I digress.

Tidepool is great. The situation with device manufacturers not sharing
important data and manuals reminds me a lot of [tractors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8JCh0owT4w&feature=emb_title).
Tractor hackers face a difficult situation: they want to be able to repair
and diagnose problems in their own machinery. They're fighting hard to be
able to do so, in the face of an industry that doesn't want to give them
anything.

Sound familiar?