---
layout: post
title: "Week 4, Your Powerpoint Burned my Eyes"
---

It's rare for me to make something in a CS class that I can imagine myself
actually using. [Less Ugly Brightspace](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/less-ugly-brightspace)
is the rare example of something I've worked on that I know I will continue to
use. I use a dark theme whenever possible, so extending that to Brightspace was
kind of a no-brainer. It helps that the extension really was not difficult to
make; it's only a few lines of code, but it makes a world of difference.

Another big help on this project: my teammates. The three of us worked very
well together. No personality conflicts, no stepping on each others' toes.
Everything flowed smoothly, a marked change from other group projects I've
been a part of. That really made it easy for all of us to contribute in our own
ways. JavaScript is not my strong suit, but I was able to fix an issue with
banner images not displaying, and I did some work on the README as well. There
was never any expectation that each of us would contribute thousands of lines
of code; the size of the project precluded that. As a result, this was a pretty
relaxing experience.

It was also an educational one. In my only major JavaScript project, I
generally avoided CSS whenever possible (it's just not my thing, I'm not a
front-end guy). In this project, I had to learn a little bit about how the JS
querySelector works, and how you can use it to select certain CSS classes. That
was pretty cool.

I'm also quite pleased with
[our presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ICk0JH02veTxGjro1TpVG8IDAHEG-8Sejj9dszYpq0g/edit?usp=sharing).
It's not too flashy, doesn't have a lot of elements on each slide, uses a dark
background... it's just a good presentation. It's a shame that the knowledge of
how to make a good Powerpoint/Slides presentation is not widely known. Most
presentations I see are... subpar. Nothing personal, it's just there's a lot
you can do to make your presentation better. Here are the easiest ways to do
so:

* Use a dark background. Makes it much easier to focus.

* Minimize the amount of text on screen. You should really only have bullet
points or headings on a slide; use those as a guide for what you say during
the presentation. Anything more than a few bullet points is going to serve as
a distraction to your audience.

* Stick to a consistent theme. Something sensible, colors-wise. If you want to
have any images or persistent thematic elements, try to make sure you don't
crowd the screen with them.

* Use low-key transitions. Don't use a dramatic cross-dissolve or whatever.
Have your slides fade in and fade out, or simply don't use transitions. That's
fine, too!

I'm not a big fan of TED Talks--I think they're largely an exercise in
narcissism--but here's an informative one.
[It's about Powerpoint](https://youtu.be/Iwpi1Lm6dFo?t=152).
At the end of the day, it's still a TED Talk, so... watch it on double speed
and try to ignore when the presenter inevitably says something objectionable.