---
layout: post
title: Week 1, Freedom
---

## Week 1, Freedom

I use a lot of Free and Open Source projects in my day-to-day life.
While I'm currently using a laptop running Windows 10, my main machine (when it
is actually functioning) runs Debian, which is, of course, a Linux distro.
On any machine, I browse with Firefox, edit with Kate, record with OBS, write
with LibreOffice Writer, and read a metric ton of Wikipedia articles. Despite
how deeply committed I am to Open Source these days, I really wasn't aware of
the concept much at all until high school. Working in the computer lab as a lab
technician, I became friends with a proponent of FOSS, who very quickly
converted me to GNU+Linux, and, to his dismay, Emacs. Since then, I've tried to
use FOSS software whenever possible, and, whenever I release code publicly on
GitHub, I license it under the GNU GPL3.

If I remember to add a license.

Which I ususally do.

To me, Open Source thus means simply the software I use every day (part of the
reason I signed up for this course). That, I think, is one aspect of Open Source
that really should be hyped and advertised more: the quality of a lot of the
software released a FOSS model. In the U.S., we tend to take for granted the
idea that the free market leads to innovation (whether you agree with that or
not, it is an idea that permeates much of the political and economic
consciousness of this country). It is thus always interesting (and, to me,
quite satisfying) when FOSS software released for free completely transforms a
part of modern life. Take Wikipedia, which radically changed how we use and
view encyclopedias. Wikipedia is free to use and makes no money through
advertisements, as we are constantly reminded by the fundraising drive messages
that pop up once a year. Wikipedia was not the result of cutthroat capitalism,
but rather consensus-based democracy.

The great thing about a blog is that I have a platform to go on long,
meandering tangents without anyone interrupting me. But I digress.

Open source isn't perfect, of course. While there are many wonderful FOSS
projects, the label isn't a uniform guarantee of quality. With no real
stakeholders, there's never any obligation to continue development, which can
leave users stranded. That being said, for-profit companies fold all the time,
leaving their users and investors stranded; FOSS seems no different in that
regard, and no more prone to failure.

But I digress again.

Using as many FOSS projects as I do, and having contributed to some myself, I'm
quite excited to learn more in this course. I've already fallen down the
Wikipedia editing rabbit hole. Someone, please send help.