---
layout: post
title: "Week 6, Open Source Doing Something"
---

The problem with a philosophy like Open Source or Free Software is that,
sometimes, it can remain purely academic.

Here's a list of principles of Open Source! Ok, great, thanks, now please let
me get back to work. Of course, the F/OS movement has largely avoided that
quagmire, and Open Source as a model has seen wide adoption, but there's always
that risk of no one caring.

One way to make sure Open Source always has a use is to bring it into the "real
world." Lots of people's eyes tend to glaze over if you bring up extremely
technical concepts or theories. Everyone has something they care about, though;
Open Source whatever they care about. If someone's into gardening or rooftop
farming, [Open Source useful data and instructions](https://farmdata.dickinson.edu/guest.php)
for gardening. If they're an educator or looking to learn, [Open Source education](https://farmdata.dickinson.edu/guest.php).
If they use a continuous glucose monitor, well, [we already know a bit about that](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/opening-the-loop).

An Open Sourc project can really become the cornerstone of a community. One
aspect of Christopher Snider's presentation I appreciated was him mentioning
that he met his wife through the diabetic community. More broadly, it's been
very nice to hear what a community has sprung up around Tidepool. I know
that, for me, a lot of my closest friendships have been centered around fairly
niche interests. An Open Source project like Tidepool can be a key pillar
of an emerging online community, and, of course, it can contribute a lot.

Tidepool's goal of democratizing data from CGMs is an admirable one. Especially
admirable is the project's commitment to each person having total control over
their data. I'd raised the question in class (and in my previous blog post)
about the difficult situation of some parents wanting control over their
children's CGM data; Snider's answer was satisfactory to me, noting that, at
the end of the day, that's a discussion the parents and their children have to
have themselves.

Helicopter parents will act as they do, and will likely be reluctant to release
control over CGM data to their children, even when those children are fully
capable of making their own decisions. The moral stakes are a bit higher here,
in my opinion, given the radical differences in opinions on this issue; those
who view control over one's data as an absolute, unalienable right will not
likely be satisfied with kicking the issue down the line, to be decided by the
parents and children at a later date.

Regardless. Communities spring up around Open Source projects. There are the
three thousand Eclipse Foundation projects, and all their maintainers; the
Open Source spec programming languages, and all their users; the Open Source
[video games](https://endless-sky.github.io/), and all their players.

Open Source makes communities possible. That's pretty nice.
