---
layout: post
title: "Week 3, Dr. Strangebranch or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Git"
---

I've been using git for a while now. I'm a firm believer in git being taught
as part of a CS curriculum; I just wish it were taught sooner. While a degree
in Computer Science is not a degree in Software Engineering, I do think that
making sure graduates have this piece of basic expertise is important. To NYU's
credit, I believe we covered git a bit in CS101; I'm glad we're covering it
again now. I'm far from an 'expert' at git (though that is the option I chose
on the survey; probably a mistake), but I'm comfortable operating with git
on the command line, I know how to handle merge conflicts, and I've generally
done a pretty good job of avoiding screwing up git-hosted projects. Hooray for
me, I should get a medal.

The git exercises we did in class served as a pretty good introduction to git,
I'd imagine. If you're new to git, it can be quite overwhelming; I remember
when I was learning how to use git and was astounded by the need to commit AND
THEN PUSH my changes. It made no sense to me at the time, and, in fact, so
actively angered me that I switched to the desktop client rather than engage
with git on the command line.

Ah, the follies of youth. In fairness to myself, I was in middle school at the
time.

Pivoting seamlessly (hey, it's my blog. If you don't like it, leave), I quite
enjoyed the discussion with Jim Hall. One point he discussed that I wish we
had spent more time on was technical writing. Hall had mentioned teaching a
technical writing course. While I understand that there's only a limited
amount of room for required course for the CS major, I do wish technical
writing were taught at some point, even briefly. You see lots of really strong
programmers who can write excellent code, but are just terrible at writing
documentation. As Hall said, it doesn't matter how good your code is if it
isn't easily usable. Usability really has to be key; if you want your projects
to see *any* use, you need to make sure people can actually use them!

So, if there's any takeaway from this post, it's the following: learn to write
decent documentation. Show your projects to some people you know who have only
average technical skill. See how they interact with a given project. Take
notes. Fix what's broken.