---
layout: post
title: "Week 12, second PR"
---

[I made my second PR](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15374)! This one is
more significant than the first, though it was meant to be less so, initially.

Because Python is dynamically typed, type annotations are quite useful for
figuring out how to navigate through a program, especially if it's your first
time looking at some code. Oppia is missing mypy type annotations for much of
the Python codebase; as such, one of the open issues is to provide mypy type
annotations for all files that could benefit from them (i.e., all Python files).

I signed on to annotate install_third_pary_libs.py, a file with which I am at
this point familiar, having written a new test for it in
[my first PR](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15290). In the process,
however, I discovered a significant amount of poorly written code in the test
file: lots of copy-pasted methods, awkwardly constructed tests, and weird
formatting. Per [this discussion](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/discussions/15336),
I decided to fix all of that.

So, I turned a 20-line PR into a 650-line PR. That was 3 days ago, and now I'm
just waiting for the reviewers to make their comments. Given the sheer scale
of the changes, I'm sure it's going to take a while. In the mean time, I can
work on my group's final presentation. Becuase we made thorough slides for our
previous presentation, it's really not going to take much work to get the
final one done.

Speaking of presentations, it was nice to hear from the other Oppia groups. It
sounds like everyone is struggling to navigate through some of the more obtuse
parts of the project, like the installation and pull requests. That's kind of
nice to hear; after all, misery loves company. It was a little surprising to
hear what exactly the issues each group was having were, though; for instance,
I hadn't run into the kafkaesque nightmare of being to merge, but
not being able to merge because your branch is stale, and then merging in the
new commits and requesting a review again, only to have the cylce start over
once more. That sounds awful, and I hope those people stuck in that loop can
find their way out.

Anyway.

On the whole, we're doing quite well, and it sounds like the other groups are,
too. I'm excited to see just what everyone's accomplished when we have the
final presentations!