---
layout: post
title: "Week 9, Oppiouch"
---

I've managed to get old DOS games up and running with less difficulty than
Oppia. That was a mess.

Oppia's [installation instructions](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/wiki/Installing-Oppia-(Windows%3B-Python-3))
for Windows aren't even that bad, really; in fact, they're pretty thorough.
Still, there were problems. The first time I set up Oppia, I made it through
mostly fine, though there were issues. I had to install it a second time due to
migrating from one WSL Ubuntu shell to another (for complicated, dull reasons).

This second time was a nightmare.

First up, I couldn't get pyenv working. Pyenv is
extremely useful for working with a project that requires specific versions of
Python. As a matter of fact, for this project, I would describe it as vital.
I'll be honest, I don't know how this was fixed. My cousin-in-law came over
today, changed something in my .bashrc, and suddenly it could run.

Next, I ran into an issue I'd had the first time I installed: the portion of
the start script that called yarn install would timeout. This was always when
it was so close to having finished downloading a package (the progress bar
was just centimeters away!). Infuriating. After a fix I outlined in point 4
[here](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/wiki/wiki/Troubleshooting-Oppia), it
worked... after the 15th attempt.

Finally, the start script would hang on the last step, every time. No reason
given why. My groupmate Brad finally helped me figure out why: I had to run it
with --no_browser. After that, it worked great. Re-reading the installation
instructions this time around, I guess I missed it. Still, that's 2 more hours
of my life I'll never get back. I'm just glad Brad knew what to do, otherwise I
would have been in serious trouble. I was in the process of setting up a VM
running Ubuntu with the sole purpose of running Oppia; I hate VMs, so Brad
saved me from a horrible fate.

Anyway, I have Oppia up and running (again...), and I've claimed an issue. I
was able to confirm that everything works for editing the relevant area, so all
that's left is to resolve the issue.

Hopefully next week's post is less stressed out on that front.