---
layout: post
title: Week 2, Codes of Conduct and Egregious Violations
---

Codes of Conduct in FLOSS projects are interesting. The necessity of their
existence could be viewed as a shame--the fact that we need these guidelines
suggests a pattern or history of flagrant abuse or misconduct--but no one can
deny that they are a good thing to have. Even when organizations break those
codes, like the Eclipse Foundation did. I'll talk about that later.

There are some things you can pretty much always expect to find in a Code of
Conduct (hereafter abbreviated to CoC).

Take the [Go Community CoC](https://go.dev/conduct). As CoCs go, it's quite
thorough, really a model of what one should look like. A CoC like this helps
ensure that new contributors know what's expected of them and other members,
what kind of conduct is acceptable, and how conflicts are resolved. They also
tell prospective contributors that this project is one that cares about how
people treat each other; if you look at a project with a clear CoC, like the Go
CoC, you can feel pretty confident that, if you ask a question, people will
answer it politely.

The Go CoC is based on that of the
[Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/),
with some changes. The Go CoC replaces the "Enforcement" section with one
called "Conflict Resolution." This serves to make the Go CoC even more
welcoming, with a focus on resolving conflicts to the mutual satsifaction of
all involved rather than enforcing the rules, which sounds much harsher. In
addition, the Go CoC adds to the Scope section a clause noting that the CoC
applies to conduct outside the Go community, reflecting the reality that a
oerson's general behavior is significant as well. If a project member has a
history of screaming racial slurs, but never does it while working on the
project, that's still someone you probably don't want on the team.

The
[Eclipse Foundation's CoC](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php)
(more on them later) is also based on the Contributor Covenant. Despite what
the assignment for this blog post says, the Eclipse CoC is quite similar in
structure and content to that of the Go CoC; in fact, 95% of the text of the
Eclipse CoC is present in the Go CoC, largely due to the fact that the Eclipse
CoC consists of the Contributor Covenant with very minimal modifications. Why
does the Go CoC have extra content, while the Eclipse Foundation doesn't?
Who knows. Cynically, I could argue that it's because Go is a Google project,
and they have more of a desire to shield themselves from liability, or that Go
is simply a much larger project than any of the projects under the Eclipse
Foundation's purview, but I will not do so. I'll just leave it as a "who
knows."

Not all CoCs are based on the Contributor Covenant; the
[Sugar Labs CoC](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct)
is based on the [Ubuntu CoC](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct).
Compared to the Go CoC, one significant difference is the means of composition
of the Sugar Labs CoC. It's on a wiki; anyone can edit the Sugar Labs CoC. In
theory, that allows for more community involvement in deciding what the
community norms should be. In terms of other differences, the Sugar Labs CoC
includes a link to a Spanish translation of the CoC (very nice to have), and,
as a matter of fact, it includes that link twice. One copy of the link is under
the heading "Spanish version," a heading that is in English for some reason,
while another is under the more logical "Version en Español."

But I digress.

Another CoC that isn't based on the Contributor Covenant is the
[Docker CoC](https://github.com/docker/code-of-conduct). Well, kind of. The
Docker CoC includes portions based on a variety of other CoCs, including the
[Slack Developer Community Code of Conduct](https://api.slack.com/community/code-of-conduct),
which in turn includs portions based on a variety of other CoCs, including the
[Rust CoC](https://api.slack.com/community/code-of-conduct), which is partially
based on the Contributor CoC. Funny how chains of inheritance work. I
appreciate that the Docker CoC features translations into 6 other languages;
that's a real commitment to international collaboration.


Earlier I said that the Eclipse Foundation broke a CoC. I might have been a bit
misleading there; they didn't break their own CoC (to the best of my
knowledge); rather, they broke Wikipedia's.

Wikipedia is clear on what constitutes a conflict of interest. With some
exceptions, you can't edit an article about you, your family, your employer,
or anyone with whom you have a close personal relationship. It's important
to [disclose](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Lkb335) a conflict of interest
(hereafter CoI); editors who disclose their CoI can, in some limited capacity,
continue editing a related article without breaking any of Wikipedia's rules.
Editors who don't disclose are in violation of Wikipedia's equivalent of a CoC.

At least 8 accounts belonging to members of the Eclipse Foundation did so.
Foundation members routinely edited the articles for the Foundation itself and
for some of its products. Most didn't hide this vey well; one account has
"eclipsefoundation" in its username; two others have "EF" in their usernames.
All have committed flagrant violations of Wikipedia's CoI policy. Upon
[uncovering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Conflict_of_interest/Noticeboard#EFdnV,_EFjacob)
the CoI violations, it became apparent that the article was functioning
essentially as an advertisement for the Foundation. Another editor and I went
through the article, eliminating all the fluff. We removed something like 75%
of the article.
[Here](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eclipse_Foundation&type=revision&diff=1069080076&oldid=1058934986)'s
a before and after. There's a still a lot of work to be done on that article,
and many others touched by members of the Foundation; it woudln't surprise me
if every article covering a Foundation product had been edited by a member of
the Foundation.

The job of a Wikipedia editor is never over, I guess.