---
layout: post
title: "Week 11, Progress but slower"
---

[More progress](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15290)! My PR has been
merged! It took some time due to some issues that popped up (I made some
foolish mistakes), but it all turned out fine. Nice to know I've actually made
a real change to something that people are actually using. Oppia sees a lot of
use, which you might be able to tell from its
[1100 pending issues](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues).

The sheer scale of Oppia's use has been something that hasn't really hit me
until recently. If we mess something up, it'll break things for a lot of
people. That's always the risk, I suppose, when lots of people rely on a
project. To be sure, though, there's lots to be gained from wide use, as I
leanred from the videos we watched in class recently.

I don't remember exactly who it was who said this, but one of the speakers in
the [Open Source in Film](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDfD3uvsjtA) video
mentioned the following idea: developing an Open Source project and then
getting the rest of the industry hooked on it puts you in a position of power.

As the company behind the project, you:

1. Have a significant amount of leeway in how it will be developed, and can use
that to modify the workings of the industry however you would like;

2. Have an easier time recruiting, as it is likely (or even certain) that
prospective hires will already be familiar with your now-ubiquitous tool;

3. Can exploit free labor, thanks to other Open Source contributors to the
project;

4. Can adopt an [open core](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-core_model)
model similar to that of, say, Red Hat. That's a great way to make money,
potentially more money than could be made by selling a closed source product.

Given all that, it doesn't take a cynic to see why companies could have less
than altruistic motives behind developing Open Source tools. That's not
necessarily a bad thing, though; the more software is released as Open Source,
the better.
